<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
/***************************************************************************************************
 *
 *
 * This file is part of WebHiob, an Robert Rozmus utility.
 * WebHiob was created a as part of the master thesis by Robert Rozmus (student of Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Computer Science)
 * Copyright (c) 2015 Robert Rozmus
 *
 * This program has got two licences:
 *  1. For non-commercial use - you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the
 *  		GNU General Public License version 3.0 (GPLv3);
 *
 *  2. For any commercial use (including payable academic lectures) - you must obtain the permission from the author
 *  (Robert Rozmus) to use it in these purposes
 *
 * @author <a href="mailto:robertrozmusjob@gmail.com">Robert Rozmus</a>
 */
-->

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets">


<ui:composition template="../../index.xhtml">

    <ui:define name="content">

        User interface of WebHiob is self-explanatory. Each lesson contains three tabs: lesson, security problem and solution.
        Each tab's content provides description, therefore you should not have any problem with using WebHiob.
        <br/>
        To be able to take advantage of all lessons it is recommended to install <a
            href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project">Zed Attack Proxy </a>
        (or similar tool allowing to intercept HTTP requests and responses).
        <br/>
        <br/>
        This tab contains the lesson, whose name is displayed above of the name of the tab.

        <h4>Aim of the lessons</h4>
        On successful completion of each lesson you will be able to:
        <div class="row">
            <div class="col-md-6">
                <ul class="list-group">
                    <li class="list-group-item"> test web applications for the specified attack</li>
                    <li class="list-group-item"> protect web applications from the specified attacks</li>
                </ul>
            </div>
        </div>
        The learning steps:
        <ul class="list-group">
            <li class="list-group-item">
                1. Read the content of the lesson's tab and try to find security problem and solution on your own.
            </li>
            <li class="list-group-item">
                2. If you will not be able to find the security problem, you should read the content of 'Security problem' tab, perform the attack and localize each described vulnerable code fragment in
                WebHiob and ensure that you understand why the attack is possible. If you were able to find security problem, you should also read
                this content to ensure that you have understood everything right. This content could also contain more generic description, therefore anyway it is valuable to read it.
            </li>
            <li class="list-group-item">
                3. If you will not be able to find solution how to protect WebHiob, you should read the content of 'Solution' tab, perform the solution in
                WebHiob and ensure that attack is no more possible. If you were able to find security problem, you should also read
                this content to ensure that you have done everything right. This content could also contain more generic description, therefore anyway it is valuable to read it.
            </li>
        </ul>

        To avoid repeating in each description of how to complete the lesson, the part that the user should find vulnerable code fragment and then protect WebHiob, is omitted.

        <h4> WARNING 1</h4>
        While running WebHiob your machine will be vulnerable to attack, therefore you should disconnect from the Internet while using it.

        <h4>WARNING 2</h4>
        WebHiob is for educational purposes only. You should not try to attempt these techniques on the Internet without authorization, because it is against to the law.

    </ui:define>
</ui:composition>
</html>
